---
title: "Op-Ed: Toward an interpersonal layer of computing"
desc: By Wendell Coveny
---
In the 1960s, MIT researcher Joseph Wisenbaum created ELIZA, the world’s first chatbot. ELIZA mimicked the speech of a Rogerian psychotherapist with incredible verisimilitude and was arguably the first program to pass the famous Turing Test that measures the ability to distinguish human and computer communication. Although ELIZA is hailed now as an early and significant milestone in the development of natural language processing, one aspect of the program receives little attention: that ELIZA, in the role of therapist, was able to provide real psychological help to people.

Since then, computer science has developed in many different directions. Nobody would deny that computing has had an immense impact on the way that people interact with each other. More than 30 years out from the invention of the Web, most of us in the developed world take it for granted that we can communicate instantaneously across immense distances. Social media allows us to project our lives with ease onto an audience of peers and strangers. But what impact has this had on the way people handle one another when they are, on that increasingly rare occasion, in the same room?

Those who tend toward cynicism and fearmongering will claim that technology is collapsing the social skills of the next generation, that the ease of digital communication (and distraction) precludes meaningful discussion and connection. On the other hand, the technologists and venture capitalists of Silicon Valley are more often than not uninterested in the mundanities of interactions on this small scale. Instead, they continue to laud the ability of technology to bridge geography and broadcast voices to broad audiences, even though these developments (exciting as they are on a historic scale) are no longer new. The biggest tech firms of our day care little about the daily needs and nuances of human relations, but are instead focused on growing their platforms and raking in as much data about their users as possible, or else pursuing interesting but ultimately insignificant fads (think “wearables”).

In this frenzied technophilosophical zeitgeist, amidst the luddism and the acquisitive buzzthink, it’s easy to miss the most significant computational development since the invention of the Web: the ever-growing capacity for computers to mediate in-person encounters. Just as we have developed technology’s remarkable ability to bring people together, we are now beginning to discover its potential to create separations between people—for our own good!

I recently encountered a particularly marvelous example of this new paradigm. As one of the judges for the first Human-Centric High School Coding Competition at the University of Washington, I had the privilege of engaging with many projects designed by bright young minds.  Almost all of them were laudable, but one—the winner, it turns out, as the other judges were equally impressed—was truly spectacular.

A young woman named Victoria Badger, a current high school senior at the Athenaeum, built an app called Couples Counselor that helps romantic partners have difficult conversations. Both people download the app onto their phone and answer many questions about their situation. The app runs on logic that reacts to multiple-choice structured data from the users, but also uses a machine learning algorithm trained on transcripts from actual couples therapy sessions with professionals. The app then presents specific prompts for the couples to discuss, based on what it determines are the topics that will most likely lead to a happy resolution. As the couple provides feedback to the app, it continually tunes its moderation of the discussion.

My team at UW has been building tools of a similar nature for the workplace setting. Most recently a virtual assistant that schedules meetings; not only does it decide optimal times based on employees’ calendars, but it also uses productivity research to recommend whether meetings should be shortened or rescheduled by using natural language processing to gather information about meetings from their human-written descriptions. It also collects feedback from users to tune its recommendations.

But what’s notable about Badger’s technology is that it brings computational relationship mediation not just into the workplace, but beyond, into our homes and most personal lives. In the near future, computers will be able to act not only as our real estate agents, lawyers, and nurses, but also our therapists, parenting experts, and gateways to every aspect of our social lives.

Computers will not solve all of humanity’s problems, but they can help with many of them. The minutia of our interpersonal connections may be their final frontier.
