---
title: Art pop feat. data? Ada and the Frigatebirds discuss big data's role in their new album.
desc: By Jennie Lister
---
Ada Bloom has always been a geek. A musician from her earliest years, Bloom bored of her Suzuki violin lessons at the age of 6 (she had already won a citywide competition in her hometown of Greensboro, NC) and taught herself piano, harp, guitar, saxophone, trombone, and cello. In high school Bloom's success in a national cello competition led her to play a duet with Yo-Yo Ma at the Kennedy Center. But Bloom cites a different high school experience as most formative to her music career: discovering the world of synthesizers.

"The first time I got my hands on a synth, it was like this entire universe of sound—of the potential of sound—flooded through my body," Bloom told me in an interview at the studio of her band, Ada and the Frigatebirds. "I'm not a religious person, but this moment when I was 15 years old at a music shop in the North Carolina suburbs with my dad, this was the foundational incident of any sort of spirituality I might have."

Bloom's father is a computer programmer, and he taught her to code from a young age. "Mostly computer games and that sort of junk when I was a kid," Bloom said, laughing. "And lots of funny little extensions for my Livejournal page in middle school. Oh, and robots! I had a big robot phase and competed robotics tournaments for a while.")

When he bought her a synth for her 15th birthday, Bloom's dad had hoped to join several of the family passions together. "I don't think he knew what an impact it would have on me," she said with a grin. "I wonder if he would have gotten it for me if he'd known I'd end up here." She gestured at the makeshift studio around us. It's the corner annex of an old warehouse that Ada and the Frigatebirds have converted to their needs. On the clear day when I visited, you could see the Atlantic Ocean, calm for the moment, through a small window. There were sound-isolating cushions attached to the walls with large swaths of masking tape. An enormous blue and orange rug that the band's percussionist found at a garage sale covers the floor, and hundreds of objects splayed over it in a sort of maze, at once cluttered and organized. There were instruments—several guitars, an accordion, and an old-looking trumpet were immediately visible—but also an assortment of other unconventional music-making devices: typewriters, a rolled-up curtain studded with LEDs, an unmounted but functioning TV screen with several cameras and microphones attached, a tall rack of servers with screaming fans that I'm told is unplugged whenever the band records. The server shares power and broadband with the coworking space that takes up the greater part of the warehouse.

"It's pretty corporate," Bloom said, and laughed her crowlike laugh again. "But the other tenants—a couple of startups work out of there—are actually really great about having bands coming through the building and nice when our sound leaks through." When Ada and the Frigatebirds are not working on their own music, Bloom sublets the space—and her equipment technical skills—to other bands looking to experiment. "Some of the guys next door have actually given me ideas for projects, and they've helped me debug my code once or twice."
