---
title: Art pop feat. data? Ada and the Frigatebirds discuss big data's role in their new album.
desc: By Jennie Lister
---
Ada Bloom has always been a geek. A musician from her earliest years, Bloom bored of her Suzuki violin lessons at the age of six (she had already won a citywide competition in her hometown of Greensboro, NC) and taught herself piano, harp, guitar, saxophone, trombone, and cello. In high school, Bloom's success in a national cello competition led her to play a duet with Yo-Yo Ma at the Kennedy Center. But Bloom cites a different high school experience as most formative to her music career: discovering the world of synthesizers.

"The first time I got my hands on a synth, it was like this entire universe of sound—of the potential of sound—flooded through my body," Bloom told me in an interview at the studio of her band, Ada and the Frigatebirds. "I'm not a religious person, but this moment when I was 15 years old at a music shop in the North Carolina suburbs with my dad, this was the foundational incident of any sort of spirituality I might have."

Bloom's father is a computer programmer, and he taught her to code from a young age. "Mostly computer games and that sort of junk when I was a kid," Bloom said, laughing. "And lots of funny little extensions for my Livejournal page in middle school. Oh, and robots! I had a big robot phase and competed robotics tournaments for a while.")

When he bought her a synth for her 15th birthday, Bloom's dad had hoped to join several of the family passions together. "I don't think he knew what an impact it would have on me," she said with a grin. "I wonder if he would have gotten it for me if he'd known I'd end up here." She gestured at the makeshift studio around us. It's the corner annex of an old warehouse that Ada and the Frigatebirds have converted to their needs. On the clear day when I visited, you could see the Atlantic Ocean, calm for the moment, through a small window. There were sound-isolating cushions attached to the walls with large swaths of masking tape. An enormous blue and orange rug that the band's percussionist found at a garage sale covers the floor, and hundreds of objects splayed over it in a sort of maze, at once cluttered and organized. There were instruments—several guitars, an accordion, and an old-looking trumpet were immediately visible—but also an assortment of other unconventional music-making devices: typewriters, a rolled-up curtain studded with LEDs, an unmounted but functioning TV screen with several cameras and microphones attached, a tall rack of servers with screaming fans that I'm told is unplugged whenever the band records. The server shares power and broadband with the coworking space that takes up the greater part of the warehouse.

"It's pretty corporate," Bloom said, and laughed her crowlike laugh again. "But the other tenants—a couple of startups work out of there—they're actually really great about having bands coming through the building and nice when our sound leaks through." When Ada and the Frigatebirds are not working on their own music, Bloom sublets the space—and her equipment and technical skills—to other bands looking to experiment. "Some of the guys next door have actually given me ideas for projects, and they've helped me debug my code once or twice."

Bloom started Ada and the Frigatebirds in 2005 with classmates Nico Thunder and Lauren Cole when she was a freshman at Brown University, where she studied computer science and semiotics. Bloom sang and played guitar, Thunder was the drummer, and Cole played the keyboard, but Bloom insisted to me that they were all multi-instrumentalists from the start—the only label that any of the group's eight current members uses to refer to themselves.

[include timeline here!]

After several years of rising acclaim in the Providence area, the trio dropped out to pursue their music full time and record their first record, *Prewar Postwar Dandelions*, which they self-released in 2007. "We were already using synths back at school," Bloom said, "but by the time we started working on *Dandelions*, I had completely given up on the idea of becoming a rockstar in the traditional sense, so I was more willing to be very out there." That first record is full of atonal synthesized rhythms and drones that Bloom generated in part with random number generators.

In their 2009 followup, *Quartz Crisis* (named after the mid-twentieth century panic of mechanical watchmakers reacting to the rise of quartz watches), they abandoned synthesizers and randomness completely. "We are all huge nerds and love futzing with technology," Bloom said, "but we had grown bored of electronic sounds, which had become such a staple of what we were doing. We realized that there were other ways to explore the … awesomeness of technology's role in modern society." The band sampled computer fans, smartphone keyboard noises, and the sounds of headphones clacking together, along with other computer-inspired sounds. The last song on the album, "Here Now," ends with a quiet ten minute recording of a classroom of high school students all on their phones. Bloom began writing lyrics that explored technology as well (among many other things). One song from *Crisis* is about a woman who buys a new smartphone every week, stacking the old ones into sort of obelisk that she then falls in love with.

On their tour for *Crisis*, Ada and the Frigatebirds began experimenting with new ways of reaching audiences with their work. They would set up temporary wi-fi hotspots at their concert venues, and fans could connect to them to get unreleased songs: a wireless but still location-dependent version of handing out cassette singles. At the end of the tour, the band created a stir on the internet when all the fans who had downloaded one of the singles discovered that their Facebook profile had transformed into a picture of a soaring frigatebird—red pouch extend under its beak—with the caption, "Don't forget to fly!" The band had distributed a virus along with their singles.

"We have the best fans," Bloom said. "Nobody really got upset about the virus, and a lot of people thought it was funny. It wasn't malicious and we had all this fine print when people accessed our download points, etc. so it went over without a hitch."

Since then, the band has been working on novel ways to bring the internet—and the traces of humanity across it—into their music. Their latest record, *Travels*, was released this spring to critical acclaim. The record is over two hours long, and as you listen to it, you feel like you are journeying through several acts of a symphonic epic. The lush and varied sound of the *Travels* combines elements of both of Ada and the Frigatebirds' previous albums, but its biggest innovation is in the process of its creation: Every track on the album has been cowritten by an algorithm (itself written by Bloom) that draws from public data on the web. For several tracks, Bloom generated keywords for the type of song she wanted to write (e.g. "jazzy" or "mellow" or "fireworks"), then used an algorithm ("Her name is Nancy.") to search a music database for songs with similar keywords, observe their instrumentation, and make judgements of what instruments Bloom should use in her orchestration, based on how common those instruments were in the other songs, combined with pretrained information about instrument-combinations and a random element. Other algorithms chose a rhyme scheme based on a single line lyrics or recommended volume and tempo shifts based on live recordings of past Ada and the Frigatebirds concerts or constrained and augmented the creation of the record in a number of ways. Bloom has categorized the software she wrote for this album into 8 distinct algorithms, which are open-source and available to download from the band's website.

"The goal was to tap into the collective mind of this particular database," Bloom explained, "and the grand mystery of what the computer brings, which is partially the random bit, but also just the processing of a level of complexity that humans can't deal with. I never wanted to be a slave to the machine, obviously, or a slave to the crowd or whatever, or to create this complexity simply for its own sake, as a gimmick. I really believed that using these methods could create beautiful art in a way that was informed by things that other musicians haven't considered before. And of course my aesthetic sensibility, and the band's, was always there to trump any constraints that we didn't like." Bloom gave the example of one song ("Thanksgiving in the Lowlands") whose instrumentation was chosen by "Nancy." "It had told us to use xylophone, guitar, and trumpet, which was a really gorgeous choice for the feel I was looking for, which was partly inspired by the canals of Amsterdam and The Hague, but after we'd recorded the whole thing we could tell it was missing something. And we added a backing beat to a couple of sections on the drum, and then it was perfect. So we cheated a bit there."

The result of all this, cheating or not, is a widely-loved album by hardcore fans and casual listeners alike. Although *Travels* is hardly a commercial giant in the music world, especially since Ada and the Frigatebirds has continued to produce and distrubte their own music despite having been offered several record deals over the years, the band has become the first completely unsigned group to be invited to perform in headliner spots at several music festivals this summer. Whether this success is related to Bloom's novel form of algorithmic creativity or is simply a product of the band's exceptional musical talent is something that each listener must decide for themselves.

When I asked Bloom if she had any ideas about how she would continue to push the boundaries of music and technology in the band's future work, a wide smile spread across her face.

"I have some thoughts," she said, crinkling her eyes, "but after months holed up in this place, right now I'm just itching to get out and play some shows!"
