---
title: Chatbot startup "Sorella" receives $2 million seed round from Calico Bletchley
desc: By Cynthia Bernstein
---
San Francisco venture capital firm Calico Bletchley has invested $2 million in a chatbot startup founded by a 21-year-old Stanford undergraduate. The company is building a chatbot, named "Sorella," designed to provide guidance of every variety to young people.

"Our target is teenagers and college-aged twenty-somethings," Sorella founder and CEO Victorai Badger said. "They can talk to Sorella about just about anything on their minds and she'll give them advice of every variety—whether that's academic or personal or professional or whatever."

Badger described the bot as a "one-stop shop" for teens looking to navigate adolescence. "By focusing so narrowly on our audience, we can broaden the scope of the subject matter we tackle and the utility we provide to our users."

Sorella is currently in private beta, but Calico Bletchley partner Carson Cooling described the product as "a transformative piece of software." As part of the the vetting process for the firm's investment, Cooling set up his teenage daughter with Sorella. "She loves it. When I've asked her to tell me about how she uses it, she'll tell me a little about it—for example, that's it's been helping her a lot with finding resources to study for her chemistry class—but then she'll say that part of what she talks about with Sorella. I think that speaks very strongly about how this product has not just practical, but also emotional value for its target audience."

It is not unusual for venture capitalists to invest in tech companies that have yet to release a public product. But the Sorella investment is particularly striking as it is a relatively large bet on a founder who has neither a public product nor deep business experience. Moreover the company still has fewer than five employees (Badger commented that it is immediately putting the investment toward hiring more talent) and it is creating a fairly narrow product in its single chatbot. While messaging as an interface has been a growing trend in the industry, few companies have built an entire business around a single bot, the notable exception being Party Fowl, another Calico Bletchley investment, which a hot property in Silicon Valley until [a controversy involving inappropriate content and minors](https://alecglassford.github.io/hia/news/2013/party-fowl-r-rated/) struck a blow to its reputation. That firm is still developing and providing its recommendation-bot, but the company's direction has been unclear and its growth stagnant over the last year.

"From our meetings and our research, Calico Bletchley has complete faith in Victoria," Cooling commented. "She may not have a lot of business experience, but that's what we are here for, and she has a remarkable vision and talent." Badger has won numerous awards for her computer science research, from [a prestigious coding award in high school](https://alecglassford.github.io/hia/news/2012/athenaeum-student-wins-coding-competition-for-marriage-counseling-app/) to a Stanford award for best undergraduate research project, given for her work on an early prototype of Sorella.

You can request early access to Sorella at [its website]()—you interact with the bot itself through text messages or any of a number of social media platforms—though there is already a long waitlist.
