---
title: Biking Uphill
desc:
---
When I started college and began riding my bike more, I realized this thing that I started telling people all the time:

> When a road looks flat, it’s probably actually a little bit uphill.

I’ll be honest: I was pretty proud of myself for coming up with this turn of phrase. But whenever I shared it with others, hoping for a laugh or a nod or a murmur of appreciation[^1], people mostly gave me blank looks.

So at the risk of being the world's biggest killjoy, let me unpack it a little:

1. It's literally just true. Every morning I bike half a mile across campus to my 9am class, and it is a **slog**. The road looks completely flat, but it's obvious to anyone on wheels that it's not. Do the hundred other cyclists who share the road with me every morning simply not notice this?

2. It's a metaphor for everything![^2] Life is hard. Moreover, situations or environments that may seem fair at first glance[^3] are usually a lot more uphill for certain groups of people than others.[^4]

This morning, I had to turn in a problem set across campus. It was due at noon, but I had been working all night and was ready to be done with it when I finished at around 6. So I walked across campus on that usual road, too loopy and sleepy to unlock my bike and ride it safely.

And it was gorgeous. As you'd expect, I suppose. But to my 6am, eigen-addled mind this was a surprise. The street lamps were still on, leaving weird glows on the old red tiles leading to the quad. But the start of the sunrise was washing out these rings of light more and more every minute, shearing them into something like the opposite of shadows, pointing west, parallel to my own shadow that passed through them, one by one, lining up every few steps.

It almost made me want to become a morning person. Almost. And to be clear, I still felt like garbage. But garbage in a world of unexpectable and peculiar delights.

I didn't notice the slope of the road at all this morning, and this probably had as much to do with my twenty-plus consecutive hours of wakefulness as it did with being on foot or the solitude and beauty of dawn or whatever. But I guess this is all to say, if I am trying to hold onto any last thread of higher meaning or whatever, that I feel a little less annoyed now about having to bike uphill every day. We'll see if that lasts past Monday.

[^1]: “mmmm,” *snaps fingers*
[^2]: Does saying this outright take away its power? Oops.
[^3]: I went to my first career fair last week, after a stressful night of resumé-editing and a long morning of outfit-choosing. Students packed into a white tent full of tech recruiters, like bees groping into a hive for their Queen (O glorious internship!). I kept my arms close to keep a tight grip on my stack of resumés and avoid bumping into people, and also to hide the growing pit-stains on my white blouse—I'd chosen the wrong outfit after all. The first recruiter I talked to (from a large social media company that I will not name) asked me about my classes, my goals, etc., and we had what I thought was a pretty promising conversation. But when I asked him about the company's diversity and inclusion programs, he gave me the most unnerving look—not entirely dismissive or cruel, but sort of "Oh, you're *that* kind of person""—and told me that while of course the company valued diversity, the company structure was a true **meritocracy**, so I shouldn't worry about it. Ugh, next please.
[^4]: I realize this metaphor still needs a little massaging. The ground is at a different angle for different people? Some people have better bikes? Something about gears?
