---
title: Clippers
desc: Why I care about design
---

For a short time in middle school, I had the most amazing nail clipper. Ridiculous, I know, but hold on a bit and you’ll see what I mean.

My mom bought them, I think, and left them in the bathroom. When I asked her what the deal was with their weird shape, she told me casually that they caught your clippings as you used them: no mess. Obviously there’s no miracle here—just a small metal tray attached to the clipper—but I was mesmerized.

As a kid, and into adolescence, I was not much into sports or music or other people (the latter two have been growing interest recently; still no interest in kicking a ball around though). But I was obsessed with how things worked. Yes, like many tinkerers of my generation, I was weaned on Lego[^1] and spent countless hours building everything from RC cars to, at age 10, with help from my dad, a desktop computer from scratch (with 512 MB of RAM, good lord). I also, however, loved observing pretty much all things made by humans: the little ephemera that make up life.

Anyway, the nail clipper[^2]. I thought the thing was fantastic, but I didn't take it with me when I left for boarding school—who would think of such a small thing? A couple of weeks later, once dirt started to cake persistently under my nails[^3], I had to trek a mile to the nearest Walgreens to purchase whatever cheap clipper I could find.

Now whenever I clip my nails, I find little leftovers scattered around days later, even though I pay close attention to cleaning up. [unfinished]

[^1]: Shout-out to the parents for not limiting me to Barbies, etc.
[^2]: Somehow nail-clipping once came up in a conversation with a classmate, and he told me that he had never used the type of nail clipper that most of us are familiar with, because his family only used nail *scissors*. What a world!
[^3]: My policy toward nail-clipping is the same as my philosophy about haircuts: as infrequently as possible without alienating everyone around me.
