---
title: Aeneid Redux
desc: In which I get my paper on Dido back
---
People talk about being cold to the bone, which I don't think is medically accurate in anyway, but it's how I feel right now. Such a blissful 4 days back in California warmth, and now I'm back here. In the middle of nowhere. In this damp world of why-would-anyone-build-a-school here. No snow here, just wet (the worms seem to love it; they were everywhere this moning when we were mulching the vegetable garden, ugh), but there's lots in the mountains apparently, and this morning they took people who were interested skiing at Steven's Pass. It's going to be good season for skiing, so I hear. Great. Love it. </sarcasm>

I did go skiing at Steven's once, freshman year. I know the basics vaguely, from trips to Tahoe as a kid, but it had been several years and I was not adept, nor particularly enthusiastic, but at that time I still cared about fitting in, etc. So I went up on the ski bus one weekend, and Jenny, who knew me a bit from an English project we'd done together, was nice enough to invite me to ski with her group of friends. Luckily one of them—an older girl whose name I can't even remember any more—was also a pathetic skier so we stuck to the easy trails for most the day. Jenny is really into it all though (she used to do races in middle school), so she insisted we do one more difficult/intermediate run that went from way up high on the mountain. I remember getting to the top, super nervous, but as we came off the chairlift I could see out over the back of the mountain: the peaks of the Cascades stretching out way into the distance, so perfect and clean and powerful. The sky was perfectly clear, so the white of the mountains meeting the blue above was just so … just so on the nose. Like a postcard, but so, so much better obviously. I remember thinking this really weird thought, that the swathes of trees that were so visible on the lower parts of the closest mountains were like patches of weirdly-shaved beards.

But anyway, I remember looking out on this and just saying "Whoa," or something like that. And Jenny was standing next to me and she said, "Isn't it something? I don't think most people realize just how special this is." And it was just a little thing—a minute later she was speeding down the slope, then waiting patiently for the rest of us to catch up—but in that moment I thought that she was such an interesting person. And I guess it's because of that day that I tried to get to know her better and we eventually became roommates. We're still not super close, and I don't think I ever expected us to be, but she is an interesting person, though I often forget.

Oh, but this is all off topic. Although I guess the topic is whatever I want it to be, since this is my space or whatever. But I want the topic to be a followup on [my last post](). I wrote about Venus and Juno defying fate and killing Dido (more or less), and I just got the essay back yesterday. It was fine, I guess, but I wish I had done a bit better. Not that I'm not doing well in the class—I pretty objectively excel at class participation and tests, and I wouldn't deny that Mr. Thompson likes me. I just think I could have written a better essay. I had (have) lots of thoughts on the topic. Mr. Thompson said I used evidence well, but he thought my argument could have been clarified. He said that while my thesis seemed to be that defiance of fate ultimately led to Dido's death, there were points in my essay where it seemed like I seemed to argue against the very concept of fate. And my questioning/muddling of fate itself undermined my argument. Which, you know, fair enough. But it's kind of muddled in the book itself, and to what extent am I supposed to bring in my own life and experience here? Like, I obviously don't actually believe that anything in life is fated.

I pointed back to Jupiter's "unscrolling" of fate a couple of times in my essay, and Mr. Thompson said I should be more careful with my translation/interpretation of that passage, since it can have multiple meanings. Well sure, okay, but why does this invalidate my interpretation? Maybe I just didn't understand his comments. We've talked a lot this year about how meaning is lost in translation—much more than in the lower level classes, since we're reading a "real" text now. Mr. Thompson is always saying how there is no such thing as true synonyms. E.g. "fast" and "quick" can't mean exactly the same thing, or else we why would we have two words? We might consciously think of them as the same, but we develop different, subtle connotations for the words in our minds as we hear and read and use them throughout our lives. And the words themselves have histories too. And then this is amplified when we try to match words across languages, even more so than usual when we try to match English with Latin, a language that is no longer spoken. Just like we can't know exactly how Virgil would have pronounced a word, Mr. Thompson tells us in his excited whisper, we can't ever know exactly what he meant.

Writing this makes it all feel like a bit of a stretch, but I actually really buy all of this stuff. Maybe I'm just not articulating it well. I guess this unknowability just feels so true and even obvious to me. But I guess the counterpoint is that if everything is so unknowable, shouldn't we just give me the benefit of the doubt on my interpretation of the passage for my paper? :P Also, come to think of it, if everything is so unknowable, is matching English to Latin *actually* that much more dubious/difficult than matching English to English? Oh, I think I'm in circles now, and I'm not sure where I'm going with all this. Interesting stuff though. And I think I probably deserve a couple of points back on the essay. :)

Final thought: We finished Book 4, and weirdly the bit of it that I've been most fixated on is only sort of tangential to all of this stuff that we had to deal with for the essay. I've been thinking a lot about Anna, actually—Dido's sister. Nothing really clear or important. I just wished we'd talked about her more in class. The part where Dido sends her to negotiate with Aeneas on her behalf—and there's some allusion that Anna and Aeneas have some deep relationship that we know nothing about??—so, so strange. And then at the end, the image of Anna watching her sister die, holding Dido's bloody body. I think of her caring sadness, and at the same moment, her anger that her sister had deceived her. I keep thinking about this. I don't know why.
