---
title: Hello, world.,
desc: Oh what am I getting myself into?
---
School tomorrow. First day of junior year. I got into SeaTac airport this morning (too early) and the school shuttle picked up around 10 of us out-of-towners and drove us two hours through traffic, then not-traffic to this intermittent "home." Jenny was on the bus, so we sat together and chatted about our summers for about 10 minutes, and then retreated to our phones for rest of the time. We have a good quiet understanding, I think, which is why I wanted to room with her again. No arguments. Not like freshman year, oh god, but this is not the place to discuss she-who-must-not-be-named.

The weather here is still good, but I know that is a deception and nature will strike soon with glum clouds and dreariness and rain galore. But right now, I am looking out the window above the desk of my new room (bigger than last year), and I see blue sky above the endless evergreens. The craggy mountains (the ones I can see at least) are snowless. On the way in, I actually saw some kids trying to sell lemonade along one of the slower stretches of the 2. Good lord.

But okay, why am I writing here, what is this blog? Mom suggested I start keeping a diary, as an "outlet" to for "expressing my thoughts feelings." She thought that this would be good for me after last year. That this would make school (or did she say life?) more bearable. Honestly, I think she's spending a lot of time with Linda from work recently, who's turning her toward hippiedom in her old age, but okay. I get the basic idea, and I told her I'd give it a shot. I certainly feel like I have more ideas flitting through my head these days than I can keep track of, so putting them somewhere sounds good. She gave me nice notebook yesterday, as a back-to-school gift—a serious, leather-bound thing—but of course I hate writing by hand: slow, and I can't bear looking at my fugly handwriting. My generation may be the last to learn cursive, as I am occasionally reminded, but I sure as hell didn't learn it very well. And my printing looks—I hate to say it—like something from a child.

So when Ishani asked me about the notebook while I was unpacking, I told her about my dilemma (maybe doesn't count as a dilemma), and she told me why not start a blog instead? "You like all that computer, internet stuff." I don't think I'd want to put any really personal things online, I told her, and I already have Facebook so why do I need another place to share? In a world of social media, anyway, blogs seem a bit out of date. And she said this would be different than Facebook because it would be *my* place, and I didn't even need to tell people about it, except maybe some day it might be interesting to look back on it or share it with people, but that the sort-of publicness might motivate me to direct my thoughts in a way, since I have always seemed to her like a more "performative" person than a reflective one. I'm not sure what I think of that comment, or whether I agree with it, but anyway, here I am. Trying something new. Listening to my mom, listening to Ishani, giving it ago for the new year. No promises that I will update this consistently.

But anyway: new school year. Excited for: Advanced computer science (small class, just a few seniors and me, and we get to do a lot of independent projects), Latin (we're reading the Aeneid!), quiz bowl (feeling good about making it to nationals this year since almost none of our best people graduated), running the new programming club I got approved in the spring, not having to do P.E. any more, knowing what to expect from this place. Dreading: winter, gardening class, the social scene, overeager frosh.

See how much longer the excited list was? I'm staying positive. That's the thing to do, I'm told.

I need to finish unpacking before welcome dinner. (Why is this a thing when school doesn't start until tomorrow? This is *not* Hogwarts, people!) More soon.
