---
title: Dux femina facti
desc: a bit on Dido
---
I've been staring at this blank screen for a long time now, unable to find exactly what I want to say. First, I was looking at the blinking cursor of the empty Word document where I will at some point (using the future tense like this makes it a prophecy of sorts, I hope) write my essay for Latin on "Who's responsible for Dido's death?" And then I thought (though I knew it was pretty much just an expression of procrastination) that I would perhaps write some unstructured (poorly structured) thoughts on this as a blog post and then make that into an essay.

But I'm a bit stuck. It's the last thing I need to turn in before Thanksgiving break, and I can't quite start. Perhaps it's in part the typical procrastination, or laziness if I want to be harsh, that I haven't really felt since last winter (maybe it's a seasonal thing). But no, I think I have solved that, more or less. I don't feel unmotivated so much as too full of too many thoughts. Thoughts, and even feelings.

Okay, a start: The whole thing kind of pisses me off, you know? Here's this badass queen, who went through all this struggle and founded a city for goodness sake, and she meets her demise because of *her feelings for some guy*? Yes, Aeneas, *pius Aeneas*, he's a big deal and he has a destiny to fulfill, and there's divine intervention, and this is all the foundation of the Roman identity, etc., etc. But at the same time—really?? We've spent some time in class talking about misogyny in the Aeneid (as is often a topic in Latin class), and I get why we move on from it because there's a lot of other interesting/wonderful/horrible stuff going on, but it's a bit hard not to get a little stuck here, trying to write about the causes of this woman's suicide when the greatest sense I get is that she was pretty much screwed over by the narrative as a whole. What if I just wrote "Dido died, because Virgil wanted to kill her"? Honestly, it's the sort of edgy thing that Mr. Thompson would probably like, but I know if I go in that direction I'll feel like I haven't properly tried my best.

I'll try to unpack a little more then. Involved parties: Aeneas. Venus. Juno. Jupiter. The Fates/fate itself.

* Aeneas: Pretty good guy, generally, by the standards of the time at least. Really just following his fate/being *pius*/doing what he's forced to. Seems to feel kind of bad about it. Still: leaves Dido out to dry.

* Venus (+Cupid): We talk literally about these gods, which makes sense in the context of the book, but Venus *forcing* Dido to fall in love with Aeneas—yes, okay, there's some metaphor here about how love works or whatever. Not sure I buy it. On the literal level, Venus seems like a pretty clear culprit: she's the one who directly altered Dido's mental state.

* Juno: She's supposed to be on Carthage's side, so shouldn't she have looked out for Dido a little better? Ostensibly, her shenanigans were toward this end (the storm, the cave, etc., etc.—we spent plenty of time discussing it in class), but couldn't a little bit of foresight told her that things weren't going to work out well here? After all, she was up against …

* Fate/Fates/Jupiter?: We're told from the start of book 1 what's going to happen with Aeneas, and it's not even so much a prophecy as just known fact by Jupiter. In class, we went deep on the nitty gritty on the scroll Jupiter alludes to—a literal written record of the future?—curious, but not all that enlightening. It made me think of the aliens from *Slaughterhouse Five* who see time as just another dimension. Regardless, all the actions of the gods become really hard to understand knowing that they know the future. I know maybe I'm supposed to ponder something deeper here about free will or deities who have very human imperfections, but mainly I'm just like wtf?

At moments, I was reminded of a quote from an episode of *Community* last season, which was all about conspiracy theories and deception: There's a bunch of double-crossing and fake guns, but of course Dean Pelton acts ridiculously, so Annie says to him, "Do you understand what a conspiracy is? If you conspire with every person, you're not even really conspiring with anyone. You're just doing random crap." So too the Roman gods.
