---
title: Rainswept?
desc: Bonesoaked? Braindrenched? Drizzled?
---
It's been raining for four days straight. When I tell people back home that I go to school near Seattle, they always say, "Oh, it must rain all the time!" Which is, of course, not factually true. But right now I am not exaggerating: the rain has literally not stopped falling for almost a hundred hours. I only vaguely remember what the sky looks like.

It started on Tuesday. A few of us were working in the garden during lunch and when it began to pour we rushed inside. It lightened up before growing loud and heavy again that night. I lay awake for much of it, listening to the water flowing hard onto the roof and the sill of the window by my bed. It was actually kind of soothing, in a weird way, like someone was scratching a metal screen with their whole body or some god was exhaling a long and tired breath down on us. If the world's going to end, I thought at one point, why *not* here and now. Jenny was deep asleep the whole time, of course, snoring her little snore.

By the morning, it had lightened up, and it drizzled all through Wednesday and Thursday. Because it wasn't that bad, we all still had to do our gardening jobs. Everyone wore rain boots in the garden, but since I don't have any (oops), I just wore my Uggs. At least I had wool socks. Thankfully I was able to trade my firewood duty with Ishani for dinner cleanup, so I didn't have to deal with the muck and dankness of the woods. Ishani likes that kind of stuff anyway. She told me I can't fully appreciate life until I stand in the woods and smell the wet cedar trees and the dirt after rain. I told her I'd go on a hike with her once the rain stops.

Friday morning it started pouring again. There was a strange, cozy feeling in precal, being in that warm corner classroom, skritching away on our papers and the whiteboard as the world washed away outside. And now, after another night of deluge, I'm here. Saturday. Keeping warm and dry in my penguin sweater at my desk and trying to write an essay about *The Stranger*. I think I get the appeal of the book, and I guess I connect to the idea of "the absurd" to some extent, but I can't say that I am super excited about it. It just doesn't seem like a very good story to me, and it's hard for me to understand what's going on in Meursault's head. Though maybe that's the point.

Meanwhile, it drizzles on. We're 10% of the way to arkworthiness. This is all to say, pleasurable night sounds aside, that I'm pretty much done with the rain. We all know that spending too much time in the sun leaves you sunburnt, but I don't think English has a word that anywhere close to describes the incredible trauma of continuous exposure to the rain.

* **Feet**: Red and numb, despite the wool socks, alas.
* **Hair**: Matted like the nest of a lazy-ass sparrow.
* **Clothes**: Starting to mold, probably.
* **Fingers**: See "Feet." Also, I still don't have gloves that work with my phone's touch screen.
* **Nose**: Snot everywhere. The gooey kind.
* **Brain**: So beyond ready to leave confinement and dreariness behind, craving California.

We should have a word for this particularly Pacific Northwestern discomfort/pneumonic peril/fashion affliction/cabin fever. I will never cease to be frustrated with the inability of words to explain my thoughts.

For now: a mug of tea will have to do.
