---
title: Rodent Religion
desc: Getting glib about groundhogs
---
Today a groundhog told us all that it's going to be a long winter. I could have told you that myself just by looking out the window. I've never really gotten Groundhog Day. Like I get that it's just a fun, silly thing (though Jenny's reaction to the news today makes me think that some people actually take it quite seriously). But it just doesn't seem … fun *enough*? I know it's a tradition, but I'm sure there are millions of traditions in the world. Why is this the weird one that we all sort of go along with? Is there some draw that I'm missing to putting your faith in a rodent to tell us about the force of nature? I get how it might have been a thing in the past, but we have, you know, meteorological models now. Maybe if the groundhog had more than just two choices, I would find the whole thing a bit more entertaining.

*Groundhog Day*, the movie, on the other hand: a perfect piece of art. I'd seen it before, a couple of times I think actually (haha), on TV as a kid. But tonight I saw it for the first time in years, because there was a screening in the dorm. So beautiful and sweet and funny, but also such a fascinating musing about time, the possibility of multiple universes, and the way we experience life and the very nature of existence. I read a theory online that the whole thing can be thought of as a computer simulation by some god—some iterative algorithm for producing morality. Not sure I *completely* buy this, but I love that so many great speculative ideas have been fit into such a comfrting, homey-feeling film.
