---
title: Wonder Land
desc: Being back in CA has got me thinking a lot about my memories of this area.
---
Until I was in third or fourth grade, when my parents deemed me old and responsible enough to take the bus on my own, carry and treasure my own house key, look after myself and make a snack—until then, my mom would pick me up after school and take me back to her office.

My parents both worked at NASA's Ames Research Center, and they had placed me in a private elementary school just a couple of miles away so that it would be easy for my mom to dip out late for lunch every day at 2, eat quickly, and fetch me when I left class at 2:30, in time to be back in the lab by 3. Looking back now, I'm glad that she didn't give up her career when I was born, like so many moms I have met, but I see now that these 2pm lunch hours were a little sacrifice of their own. She would always pack identical lunches for my dad and for herself, but she would add a ziploc baggy of peanuts into hers. I realize now that she must have gotten hungry midmorning. In my dad's meager defense, he would usually take his lunch at 1, dine with his colleagues, then meet up with my mom at 2 to keep her company as she had her meal, before giving her a kiss as she left for my school and he returned to his desk. I know all this because I was obsessed with schedules and the ways grown-ups passed their time. In truth, I was obsessed with all the strange minutia of adult life, and, to some degree, I suppose I still am.

Mom would show up in her white lab coast, most days, and I would tell whatever classmate was at my side that day, "Did you know my mom's a **scientist**?" for the nth time. In fact she was an engineer, but I had discovered that most children didn't know the difference. I was so proud of her, and I could barely understand how other kids could go through their lives without stories about astronaut acquaintances and what experiments had been chosen for the next trip to the ISS.

In the car, I would ask her what had happened that morning. This was the best part, though I don't think I realized it at the time. When I remember that car ride now, I remember the boundless faith I had in my parents to solve every hard puzzle imaginable and explore (by proxy) every corner of the universe. They made spaceships after all.

My mother would tell of the mundane problem she was working on that day—adjusting the design of a part to bear a greater load, writing a report exploring the use of a new material or paradigm—but she would always frame it to emphasize the ultimate stakes—making sure the astronauts could carry enough food, discovering new ways to explore the limits of space. She was an unmatchable storyteller, and she held my attention completely each day. Perhaps she told the stories for herself too.

At Ames, I would sit at the empty desk in my mom's lab and read or do homework, if I had any. Each day, I would look forward to getting to go to this magical place. But nothing ever really happened there. Sometimes, I would follow my parents around as they tested some part, or I would watch the scientists do some experiment. Most of the time, they were all at their computers, making models or writing memos, or else in meetings that seemed to go on forever and where I was never welcome. I never complained. To me, it was all wonderland nonetheless. My parents and I had created this myth so wholly for myself.

But now I think back at all those hours I spent in those sterile rooms and it is difficult to feel entirely satisfied. Sure, I am happy for all the books I read and the nice adult figures who taught me so many little facts and made me care about science and technology. But how much time exactly did I spend there? 3 hours a day, 5 days a week, at least 40 weeks a year, for 4 or 5 years. Thousands of hours in a black rolling chair at that corner desk. A reading lamp with a bendy neck that I would fiddle with. I burnt my finger on the bulb more than once. When was the last time I saw an incandescent bulb?

I never got to play sports. Or be in the choir. Or ride my bike around the neighborhood or whatever else kids are supposed to do. I did all these things later, sure, in middle and high school, but usually reluctantly. I'm not mad about any of this though. Anger is not an emotion I do very easily, and all those childhood days in the Research Center were not wasted, anyway. They made me: the other Victorias—the jock, the social butterfly, whatever—are not me, and why mourn them? We all deal with this same conundrum in our lives, I guess, the uncountable multiverses of our selves that narrow and narrow every moment. So I don't presume to bring anything unique to the table there.

But it's the oddest feeling to look back on that car ride from school to Ames—that familiar ten minute journey past the Burger King and the Vietnamese hair salon and the business park with green windows. Every day, especially in the earliest years, I would trick myself again, fill myself with that same excitement over and over that I was on my way to the greatest place on Earth. Only now, over a decade later, do I see that those silly little commutes, those little nothings—those were the most wonderful moments.

I am terrified to look back in ten years and see the most beautiful moments of my life that I cannot see now.
