---
title: Jigsaws, Leopards, Squash, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc.
desc: (etc., etc., etc.)
---
When I decided to go to college in the Bay Area, I told my parents that even though I was so closet to home, I didn't want to be spending every weekend with them. I've achieved this goal pretty successfully: my mother brought me a few things from home, and I went out to dinner with my parents once when my aunt and uncle were in town, but that's it.

So Thanksgiving has been really … something. I get a week off from school and hoped to spend as much of it as possible getting ahead on coding projects for the rest of the term—the intro class that I'm required to take for the major certainly isn't difficult, but it has taken plenty of time nonetheless, and I have plenty of other coursework to worry about too, ranging from the trivial (physics) to the wonderful (a grad HCI seminar—nobody seemed to care that I'm a freshman).

But anyway, I had hoped to just bury[^1] myself into studying for the first part of the week in the absence of the distractions of classes, friends, etc. However, my dear mother has insisted that this is "a time for family," never mind that she was working Monday through Wednesday and that we never have Thanksgiving with any "family" outside of me, her, and my dad. Thus I have spent most of the last few days in the living room with my dad watching TV[^2] and working on a 12,000 piece jigsaw puzzle of a snow leopard in a mountain pass in a sleet storm.[^3]

It's so curious to me that my dad has developed an obsession with jigsaw puzzles in retirement. Tired of NASA, he has found an entirely lo-fi hobby to occupy himself with. That said, he brings an engineer's mindset to it: he has applied different strategies to his puzzle solving—sort by color, sort by shape; start with the biggest shapes, start with the smallest possible, ones—and for each puzzle he logs a multitude of data that includes the # of pieces, the strategies used, and the time spent completing it. For the snow leopard, we sorted all the pieces by shape before we placed any into the puzzle. Then we built the outer frame. Then he made a list of minimal polygons and assigned them one by one to either himself or to me. First we did boulders (outlines still distinct despite being covered with snow) and the leafless branches of trees. Then we did the green eyes, then the face of the leopard, followed by its fluffy ink-tipped tail, then its feet, which disappear into a snowbank, then the rest of its outline. Then the outline of the valley itself—the horizon is pretty impossible toward the middle though, so we left a gap. Now we're doing the leopard's spots. And once we finish those, we'll do the sky, focusing first on the specks of sleet that cross multiple jigsaw pieces. Of course that's about 60% (~7,200) of the puzzle that's basically just shades of grey, which he'll have to finish after I leave.

It's a ridiculous puzzle, but I can't say I don't find some meditative[^4] value to this process.

On occasion, I've been able to get out my laptop and nest into the couch next to my dad and work on school stuff, but eventually he'll ask me in his sweet dad voice to "Give me a hand here, honey," and I'll have to help out with the puzzle or else feel like a terrible daughter.

Every once in a while, he'll pause, gaze over the puzzle, and say something like, "Boy, isn't this a beautiful scene?" The answer is obviously no, but I just murmur.

I asked him if he had ever thought about traveling to the Himalayas to actually see a snow leopard[^5] since he was so moved by it and he just laughed.

"When you're old like me, pretty much anything can be moving." He's not actually that old though; he just retired because he was tired of his job and my parents don't need two source of income anymore.[^6] He's supposedly working on a book about his time working on ICBM design for the government in the last years of the Cold War, but it seems to me like he mostly just does puzzles.

Which brings me back to now: I'm nested in the corner of the couch and am getting away with some computer time because since my mom is off from work today my dad has roped her in as his #1 jigsaw assistant. They're actually kind of cute when they're working together on something trivial like this and not arguing about politics or their plans for the next 30 years or me or whatever else they like to go on about.

I've finished the last two assignments for my intro programming class while trying to ignore them and the TV's chatter, and I'm writing idly here to procrastinate from physics homework or writing my research proposal for Gordon Shu's lab[^7] or, god forbid, returning to the jigsaw puzzle. It's fine, but I have had just about enough. Dad has set a goal of 1,500 pieces for today, since we didn't get to work on it yesterday.

For Thanksgiving, my dad has long tried to create some sense of tradition in our generally iconoclastic family by following the same routine more or less every year[^8]. My mom and I have little interest perpetuating these traditions, but my mom plays along, because she understands marriage and is more mature than me I guess, whereas I make it as hard for him as possible, having decided for some reason that this is the moment every year that I will fully embrace teenage rebellion.

Dad gets up to watch the Macy's parade at 6 (I used to join for this, when I was young and didn't feel the weight of mornings, but now he spares me and mom). When we come down to catch the last part of the parade, he has made Snoopy shaped pancakes for us, with strawberries[^9] and powdered sugar. We sit on the couch and eat our pancakes, and **literally every single year** he makes a comment about how our weather is so much better than New York's right now, gesturing at the screen and adding, "That right there, that's why I moved to California." I think that he knows he says this same phrase every year; I think it's a sort of joke to himself. But, then again, he has never been very interested in words, so maybe this is just a bit of banal habit that has emerged dully from a cluster of his usually very clever neurons. A couple of years ago, it actually looked like pretty nice weather on TV, and I pointed this out to my dad, but he ignored it and my mom gave me a warnful glare.

But—and perhaps I sink a little into banality myself here—whenever he does this little bit about the weather, it has had an effect on me in the past. While I was at boarding school, I would always fly back Wednesday night and then pass out as soon as I got to my room, so Thanksgiving mornings were an absolute shock of light for me. He would say the thing, and I would look out the window and see the blue sky and the ridiculous phallic succulent in the backyard, and I would feel totally, queasily, wonderfully transported from the PNW, where the same time yesterday I had been finishing up my oatmeal in the caf and preparing to venture through the perpetual rain to my first period class. Worlds apart, and then all of a sudden there was a third place on the TV that my dad was compelling me to make a further comparison to. It sounds silly and old-fashioned, but I have always felt extremely fragile to the power of technology (whether planes or television) to disorient—and of course the internet can be orders of magnitude more disorienting than anything else we've come up with. Maybe this is some sort of mental corollary to my propensity for carsickness. Regardless, I know that I only want to make technology that makes people feel **more** comfortable and, well, oriented.

After breakfast, we go for a walk. Not into the beautiful hills or parks of Northern California, no. Just in suburbia: a little hour loop around the neighborhood. This part of the day made more sense before our dog[^10] died a few years back, but now it has become a time for my parents to ask me about school[^11] and gossip about the neighbors as we pass by their houses. We don't even really know our neighbors, but this doesn't keep my mom from pointing out how much water each house uses on its long (she maintains a spreadsheet) or my dad pointing out new cars on the street and telling me about the snippet of conversation he had with so-and-so at the grocery store.

My mom makes pear salad to bring to dinner, while my dad and I play a few long rounds of chess. He's pretty good, but I always win every game, for as long as I can remember now. We snack on popcorn and celery with peanut butter and this bland barley tea that my mom always has in the kitchen.

At around 1pm, my dad starts making phone calls, which is when I finally get a break. For some of these phone calls (e.g. my aunt and uncle), I have to pop onto the line to say hi and answer the typical series of perfunctory questions. But for others (and there are many), he'll just go on forever, sitting on the couch in his faded blue jeans with his barley tea in one hand at the landline in the other. He calls up old coworkers (including a couple of astronauts), friends from college and grand school, and even a couple of guys from high school. He loves this part, this seasonal convocation of his Brotherhood of Old Guys[^12]. He laughs, he mutters seriously, he asks about their health. And at the end of each call, he says this thing which seems sweet written out now, but is so grating when you hear your dad say it twelve times without moving his butt from the couch: "Well, I just wanted to call to tell you how thankful I am for you. Thankful for all the good times, and thankful that we're both still here."

We change and go to an early dinner at our family friends', Chris and Jean. Chris and Jean have 4 kids, who are all 3-10 years older than me. They invite us and a few other small families every year. These mainly include couples whose kids are grown and live far away, and thus make only occasional appearances at the Thanksgiving dinners. There's also this one woman who always comes by herself and whose story I don't know at all. Every year, my mom whispers her name into my ear when we enter the house (along with the names of all the other people), and every year, I promptly forget it. I don't even remember it now.

At this point, I spend at least half an hour giving the talking points of my life to all these people that I see precisely once a year and who are always certain, of course, that I've grown so much. This year, one of the empty-nester couples' daughter had a baby, and they flew in from Chicago, so the attention that seems to attach itself to the youngest person in the room in these situations moved away from me for once.

Then we eat. Each family always brings the same dish every year. My family: pear salad. The new grandparents: green beans. The mysterious quiet woman: this ridiculously good homemade pumpkin pie. Jean makes mashed potatoes and turkey, but this year, they are in the middle of a vegetarian experiment because Chris has been having heart problems, so she made this crazy quinoa-stuffed butternut squash instead of turkey. Everyone commented effusively about how it was just as good.

And after the pie, home. My parents pass out almost immediately, even though it's usually only like 8 o'clock. And I get cozy in my childhood bed and stare at my computer for a couple of hours, doing whatever computer thing I feel that I have to do (this year: beginning a blog post). But I don't know why I'm even explaining this part. As nostalgic as it makes me (between the eye-rolls) to examine my dad's little rituals,  I am not very interested in thinking about my own life through the lens of tradition.

[^1]: Bury sounds negative, but I mean it in the most glorious way.
[^2]: He canceled cable over the summer, and mom and I wrote a program that pulls from feeds from YouTube, PBS, CNN, and a few others, then chooses the ones most tuned to my Dad's taste based on predefined keywords and also a machine learning rating based that uses keyword features. We hooked up a server that lives next to the TV and added an IR sensor set up so he can use the channel-up and -down keys on an old remote we have to vote for which videos he likes. At this point it's basically a mix of global politics, soccer, and clips from shitty Adam Sandler movies.
[^3]: I KNOW!! WHO COMES UP WITH THIS SHIT??
[^4]: Recently read an interesting article about [meditation's benefits for work/productivity](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/29/googles-jolly-good-fellow_n_3975944.html), among, obviously, other things.
[^5]: and get sleeted on
[^6]: With their mortgage paid off and their evident lack of desire to travel or, like, do anything fun, my parents have pretty much no expenses, which seems like a strange and boring place to be in life. Except for my tuition of course, but they opened a savings plan for my college when I was born and have fully paid into it over the years, which I realize makes me so, so ridiculously fortunate and privileged. And yet, in a way, makes my parents' lives so, so static and uninteresting. Strictly better than the financial insecurity, I suppose, but still.
[^7]: !!! I am of course over the moon about this, but am anxious about making the proposal perfect. I met with him last week and he seemed pretty enthusiastic about having me work on this chatbot stuff he and his grad students are doing; he just wants me to write something formal about what specifically I think I can contribute. I think (esp. after Couples Counselor) I'm most interested in working on generalizing way from domain-specificity. As long as bots are niche, no matter how useful they may be, they'll always appear to users to some extent as simply a veneer over a computer interface. But if they can be generalized, even if this means accepting some flaws in understanding and the verisimilitude of natural language generation, I think they can come across as more … human, I guess. Real people are bad at a lot of things, not good at one. I have a feeling that this exploring in this direction can unlock more of the true potential of bots.
[^8]: These routines were established pre-puzzle, and thus the blissful jigsaw respite.
[^9]: Truly the worst type of berry. Still good. But out of the set of berries: the worst.
[^10]: His name was Goddard, which, you know: obviously a reference to the rocket scientist. But as a kid, I always thought my parents had ripped the name off from Jimmy Neutron. I feel bad about this now, but Goddard and I did not get along.
[^11]: This year, I finally had something to say to this. When I was at boarding school, I pretty much didn't want to talk about anything.
[^12]: (And a Few Token Women)
