---
title: Goals for my first year of college
desc: Or at least the ones I care to share …
---
* Meet/take a class with/befriend [Gordon Shu](). He's a computer science professor who is an expert in HCI and wrote *The Machine Is the Message*, which is probably my favorite non-fiction book. He's only teaching grad-level classes this year, but I definitely want to work with him if there's any way. One of the RAs in my dorm said I should just email him and ask if he needs any research assistants. I might be too nervous to do it though.

* Make a couple of friends that really mean something to me. Like, more than study-buddy friends. Like, godparents to each other's kids some day friends.[^1] I've already met a couple of people in the dorm who are really great—this guy and girl who went to high school together and just started talking to me when they saw me reading under the tree right outside the dorm last week. They're both really funny and are maybe even more obsessed with Chinese film than I am! (!!) Literally never met anyone else my age who is into it. We're planning to go see something together at the film festival in Santa Cruz next month!

* Get a tan. Only partly kidding. I'm not the outdoorsiest, but I need to celebrate my escape from the land of perpetual overcast.

* See [Ada and the Frigatebirds]() live! They're playing in SF in March!!

* Do maybe one thing that's way out of my comfort zone. I saw some people playing naked frisbee golf near the quad as I biked home from office hours late last night. I would maybe do that if I found the right group of people. I guess I should start by, like, going to a frat party though, as a more socially accepted venture into discomfort.

[^1]: Okay a little ambitious, yeah, but aim for the stars, etc., etc., bleh
