---
title: Morning Meetings
desc: In which I have blessinged/cursed myself to a new way of life
---
It's been a long time since I've written here.[^1] Spring quarter was a whirlwind, between an intense array of classes and starting to lead a team in Gordon's lab. The wonderful crazy of that continues now—for the summer, I'm keeping on with developing the same project about generalizing natural language systems across domains—but without classes I have a little more time to find sanity and reflect. I've started properly meditating on a daily basis now, with the help of an app I found.

Unfortunately, on the weekends at least, that free time seems to have shifted more than I would like toward the mornings. Gordon is an early bird, so we have lab-wide meetings every weekday at 9am. I had a couple of 9am lectures this year, but I skipped most of those. So over the last month, I've had to get used to waking up early. Which is fine, but I feel resentful of it, in a way, for preventing me form engaging in a more typical college student sleep schedule.[^2]

I'm writing this now because I can't sleep in past 8 any more[^3], even on the weekends, and I have brunch plans with Jess at 11. Gordon has told me to stop thinking about research on the weekends, because he thinks it will drive me crazy, so I started this morning with meditation, but I still can't go for more than about an hour. Writing a little bit seems like the next best thing for my psyche.

So much has changed in my life in the last few months. A lot of my excitement about college, its newness, and the opening up of my life has gone away, but in its place is a sort of clarity. I love working on the research I'm doing, and I want to keep grappling with these questions for the foreseeable future. I think about the course of my life now, and it's obviously far from completely sorted out, but it comes to mind more like a long prism of glass in the sunlight than a jumble of yarn. Ah, but that sounds silly and doesn't quite capture it. Words fail as always.

But there! That very failure is what exhilarates me about the work I'm doing! If communication is so deeply imperfect and continually flawed, that means it cannot be so far out of reach for a bot to have a conversation with you with the same meaningfulness that a human can. Yes, I'm talking in a certain away about the Turing Test, but the potential here is not just verisimilitude: it's the ability for computers to provide benefit to our lives, both pragmatically and socially, just as humans do.

Example: My dear friend Jess has so much humanity to her that no machine could fully imitate/replace/be equivalent to her, at least not with the technology we'll see during my lifetime. And yet, when she talks to me about geology, I sometimes have no idea what she's talking about. She also speaks Spanish, which I don't understand. Conversely, when I talk about computer science or even the human goings-on of my lab, she sometimes does't follow or doesn't care. Then why are miscommunications between me and a bot—we could take Siri as an example—any different than miscommunications between me and another person?

You could say that Siri doesn't have a mind, but that's not terribly important to my sensation of talking to her. Whether I'm talking to a person or a computer, we will never understand each other perfectly. That's why, even as natural language research progresses, we don't need to have perfect natural language before we can have meaningful relationships with bots. There's so much that can be done with other aspects of design: whether that's the way bots generalizes when given queries it doesn't recognize (my current research), or implementing state in a reasonable way (Siri is not a compelling person, because she barely remembers anything ever), or just changing the circumstances of how we interact with them (Siri only ever responds, and never initiates conversations).

Computers are not people, and they won't be any time soon. They obviously don't deserve the ethical considerations that humans do, and I think any worry about AI taking over the world or whatever is pretty much bluster and silliness. But computers can become humanlike presences in our lives even without being anywhere close to sentient. We just need to expand our imaginations of what they can do for us and how we will engage with them in our lives.

After all, computers are just human thoughts pasted together into a useful configuration. I can have a conversation with you and learn of some of your thoughts and feel all of your humanity. Or I can talk to a computer and access the thoughts of a million people and, perhaps, just enough of their collective humanity, pieced together into something that feels fulfilling to converse with.

But it seems that I've started thinking about my research on the weekend again. So enough for now. More soon.

[^1]: I say apologetically to my non-existent readers.
[^2]: I've learned that I don't need to sleep as much as most people: 5 hours every night is more than enough. I will be groggy or annoyed in the morning, but by the time I get moving my mind and body feel fully functional. I think the meditation maybe helps with this. Regardless, it feels like a useful talent.
[^3]: The paper-thin blinds in my summer dorm room certainly don't help. My life is like 85% California summer sun; our lab gets lots of sunlight, which seems antithetical to my mental image of a what a lab should be.
